---
title: How to Set Up Visual Studio Code for Remote Development on Ubuntu via SSH
date: 2025-04-11 16:08:00 +0900
categories:
  - Development
  - Linux
tags:
  - Linux
  - SSH
  - Ubuntu
author: Youkoutaku
math: true
mermaid: true
---

In this guide, I will show how to set up Visual Studio Code in your machine, to 

### 1. **Install VSCode and Remote Development Extensions**

- Ensure you have Visual Studio Code installed on your local machine. If not, you can download it from [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/).
- Install the **Remote - SSH** extension in VSCode. You can do this by:
    1. Opening VSCode.
    2. Clicking on the **Extensions** view icon on the sidebar.
    3. Searching for **Remote - SSH** and installing it.

### 2. **Enable SSH on Ubuntu**
SSH should be enabled on your Ubuntu machine.
- Open a terminal on Ubuntu.
- Run the command to install ssh:

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install openssh-server
```

- Check the SSH is running by typing

```
sudo systemctl status ssh
```

### 3. **Find Your Ubuntu machine's IP Address**
- On Ubuntu, run the following command to get the IP address:
    `ip a`
- Take note of the IP address shown (e.g., `192.168.x.x`).

### 4. **Configure SSH on Your Local Machine**
- If you haven’t already, generate an SSH key pair on your local machine:
    1. Open a terminal/command prompt on your local machine.
    2. Run on Local Machine:
        `ssh-keygen`
	3. Terminal:
		1. `Enter file in which to save the key:` Enter(default)
	    2. `Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase):` Enter
	    3. `Enter same passphrase again:` Enter
    4. Follow the prompts to generate the key. The default location for storing the key is fine
	    1. Linux: usually `~/.ssh/<id_name>`
	    2. Windows: usually `C:\Users\<username>\.ssh\<id_name>`

- (Linux): Copy your SSH public key to the Raspberry Pi.
    1. Run:
        `ssh-copy-id <ubuntu_user_name>@<ubuntu_ip>`
    2. Replace `<ubuntu_ip>` with the IP address of your Raspberry Pi.
    3. Enter the password when prompted.
- (Windows): There is no command to copy the public key directly. We need to open the public key and copy it.
	1. Run: Show the public key
		`type C:\Users\<Username>\.ssh\<id_name>.pub`
	2. Access Raspberry Pi's SSH :
		`ssh <ubuntu_username>@<ubuntu_ip>`
	3. Create `.ssh` Folder on Raspberry Pi and paste the public key

```shell
mkdir -p ~/.ssh
nano ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

> `authorized_keys` is a fixed filename. If you have many keys, please save all of them in this file.

- Test SSH Access:
	- Able to SSH into ubuntu from your machine without a password:
		`ssh <ubuntu_username>@<ubuntu_ip>

### 5. **Configure VSCode to Connect via SSH**

- Open VSCode.
- Press `Ctrl + Shift + P` to open the Command Palette.
- Type and select **Remote-SSH: Connect to Host...**.
- Enter the following: `<ubuntu_username>@<ubuntu_ip>`
- Replace `<ubuntu_ip>` with the IP address of your Raspberry Pi.



### Optional: **Save Connection**

- You can save this SSH connection for easier access in the future:
    1. Go to **File** > **Preferences** > **Settings**.
    2. Search for **Remote.SSH: Config File**.
    3. Edit the (Linux):`~/.ssh/config` or (Windows): `C:\Users\<username>\.ssh\config` file to add config:

```bash
# For Linux
Host Ubuntu
	HostName <ubuntu_ip>
	User <ubuntu_username>
	IdentityFile ~/.ssh/<id_name>`
```

```bash
# For Windows
Host Ubuntu
	HostName <ubuntu_ip>
	User  <ubuntu_username>
	IdentityFile C:\Users\<username>\.ssh\config
```

- This way, you can simply type `Ubuntu` in the **Remote-SSH: Connect to Host** command.

### Optional: **SSH Setting**
The "Connection Refused" error maybe show up when trying to SSH into the server. When the connecting is cut down while, the SSH service will down automatically.

- You can edit the SHH service setting `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`.
```
sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

- Enable the following setting
```
ClientAliveInterval 60
ClientAliveCountMax 3
```

- Restart the SSH service
```
sudo systemctl restart sshd
```

### 6. **Start Editing on Ubuntu**
